In case it's not clear,
teleoperation means you're controlling the truck remotely.
Like it's a video game. So, uh,
you gotten the chance to witness it does actually work.
Yeah. I mean, so it's, uh.
What are the pros and cons.
Problems with, with doing research like this,
with all these w with all these Silicon valley folks, the NDAs. Right.
So I don't, you know,
I don't know what I'm able to say about sort of watching it, but obviously the,
their public statements about sort of what the challenges are. Right.
And it's about the,
the latency and the ability to sort of in real time.
There's challenges that, let me say one thing. Uh, so I'm talking to the,
the w w you know, I've talked to the Waymo CTO, I'm in conversations with them.
I'm talking to the, the head of trucking Boris, uh, soften in next month.
Actually, I'm a huge fan of his, because he was, uh,
I think the founder of [inaudible], which is a toy robotics company. Uh,
so I love cute. I love human robot interaction, and he created one of the most,
uh,  effective and beautiful toy robots. Um,
anyway, I keep complaining to them on email privately that, uh,
there's way too much marketing in these conversations and not enough showing off the, both the challenge and the beauty of the engineering efforts. And that seems to be the case for a lot of these Silicon valley tech companies. They, they put up this
, uh, you're talking about NDAs.
They, they they've, I, for some reason, rightfully wrongfully,
because there's been so much hype and so much money being made,
they don't see the, um,
the upside in being transparent and educating the public about
how difficult the problem is. It's much more effective for them to say,
we'll have everything solved. This will change everything.
This will change society. As we know it,
and just kind of wave their hands as opposed to exploring together,
like these different scenarios, what are the pros and cons?
Why is it really difficult? You know, what are the,
what are the gray areas of what works? And doesn't, uh,
what's the role of the human in this picture of the,
both the sort of the operators and the other humans on the road, all of that,
which are fascinating, human problems,
fascinating engineering problems that I wish we could have a conversation about
as opposed to, uh, always feeling like it's just marketing talk,
because a lot of what we're talking about now,
even you with having private conversations under NDA,
you still don't have the full picture of everything,
of how difficult this problem is.
One of the big questions I've had still have is how difficult is
driving of disagree with, you know, Elon Musk and Jim Keller. On this point,
I have a sense that driving is really difficult. You know,
the task of driving just broadly, this is like philosophy talk, how,
how much intelligence acquired to drive a car.
So from a, like a Jim Keller was used to be the head of autopilot.
The idea is that it's just a collision avoidance problem.
It's like billiard balls. It's like, you have to convert the dry,
if do some basic perception, the computer vision to convert,
driving into a game of pool.
And then you just have to get everything into a pocket. Yeah, to me,
that seems to be some game theory at a dance, uh,
combined with the fact that people's life is a stake.
And then when people die at the hands of a robot,
the reaction is going to be a much more complicated. So all of that,
but that's still an open question.
And the cool thing is all of these companies are struggling with this question
of, of, uh,
how difficult is it to solve this problem sufficiently such that we can build
the business on top of it and have a product that's going to make a,
a huge amount of money and compete with the manually driven, uh, vehicles.
And so their teleoperation from Starsky is, is really interesting idea.
How much can a, I mean, there's a,
there's a few autonomous vehicle companies that tried to integrate teleoperation
in the picture.
Can we reduce some of the costs while still having
reliability, like, um, uh,
catch when the vehicle, uh,
fails by having teleoperation it's an open question. Uh,
so that's, that's for you scenario number two is to, uh,
use teleoperation as part of the picture. Yeah.
Let me, let me follow up on that question of how hard driving is, because this,
this becomes a big question for researchers who are thinking about labor market
impacts, right?
Because we start from a perspective of what's hard or easy for
humans, right. Um, and so, you know,
if you were to look at truck driving prior to a, I mean,
this has been a lot of thinking and debate in, um,
in academic research circles around sort of how you estimate labor impacts,
right. What these models look like.
And a lot of it is about how automateable is a job object recognition,
really easy for people, right. Really hard for computers.
And so there's a whole bunch of things that, you know,
truck drivers do that we see as, you know,
super easy and as it would have been characterized 10 years ago, routine,
and it's not for a computer, right. It's, it's,
it turns out to be something that we do naturally that is, that is, you know,
sort of cutting edge, right. Um, computer science.
So on the tele operation question, I think this is, um,
this is an more interesting one than, than people would like to sort of let on.
I think publicly, um, there are going to be problems, right.
Um,
and this is one of the complexities of sort of putting these things out in the
world. And if, if you see the real world of trucking, you realize, wow,
it's rough. You know, they're dirt, lots, there's gravel,
there's salt and ice and cold weather.
And there's equipment that just gets left out in the middle of nowhere.
And the brakes don't get maintained and somebody was supposed to serve as
something and they didn't, you know, and so you imagine, okay,
we've got this vehicle that can drive itself,
which is going to require a whole lot of sensors to tell it that like the doors
are still closed and the is still hooked up.
And each of the tires has adequate pressure and, you know, any number of,
you know,
probably hundreds of sensors that are going to be sort of relaying information.
And one of them, you know,
after 500,000 miles or whatever goes out now, you know,
do we have some fleet of technicians sort of continually cruising the highways
and sort of servicing these things as they do,
what pulled themselves off to the side of the road and say,
I've got a sensor fault I'm pulling over, you know,
or maybe there's some level of like critical safety, critical faults or, or,
or whatever. Um, it might be. So, you know,
that suggests that there might be a role for tele operation
even with self-driving. And when I push people on it, in the,
in the conversations, they all are like, yeah, we kind of have that on the,
like bottom of the list, figure out how to rescue truck. You know,
it gets looked on the to-do list, right after solving the self-driving,
you know, question is like, yeah, what do we do with the problems? Right.
I mean, now we could, we can imagine like, all right, we have some, you know,
protocol that the truck is not, you know,
realizes the system says not safe for operation pull to the side. Good.
You have it crash, but now you got to trucks, ran it on the side of the road.
You're going to send out somebody to like calibrate things and check out what's
going on. Or that sounds like expensive labor. It sounds like downtime.
It sounds like the kind of things that shippers don't like to happen to their
freight, you know, in a, in a just-in-time world.
And so wouldn't it be great if you could just sort of, you know,
loop your way into the controls of that truck and say, all right,
we've got a sensor out, says me that says that the tire's bad,
but I can see visually from the camera looks fine.
I'm going to drive it to our next Depot, you know,
maybe the next Ryder or Penske location. Right.
Sort of all these service locations around and have a technician technician take
a look at it. So tele operation often gets this, you know, um,
so dismissive, um, you know, commentary from,
from other folks working on other other scenarios. But I think it's,
it's potentially more relevant than, than, than we, we hear publicly.
A hard problem. And, uh, you know,
for me, uh,
I've gotten a chance to interact with people that take on hard problems and
solve them. And they're rare what Tesla has done with their data engine.
So I thought autonomous driving cannot be solved without collecting a
huge amount of data and organizing well, not just collecting,
but organizing it and exactly what Tesla is doing now is what I
thought it would be like. I couldn't see car companies doing that,
including Tesla. And now that they're doing that, it's like, oh, okay.
So it's possible to take on this huge effort seriously. To me,
teleoperation is another huge effort like that.
It's like taking seriously. What happens when it fails?
What's the, in the case of Waymo for, um, for the consumer, like ride sharing,
what's the customer experience.
Like there's a bunch of videos online now where people are like the car
fails and it pulls off to the side and you call a customer service.
And you're basically sitting there for a long time and there's confusion.
And then there's a rescue that comes and they start to drive. I mean,
just the whole experience is a mess that has a ripple effect to how you
trust in the, in the entirety of the experience,
but like actually taking on the problem of that failure case and
revolutionizing that experience both for trucking and for ride sharing.
That's an amazing opportunity there because that feels like it would change
everything. If you can reliably know when the failures happen, which they will,
you have a clear plan that doesn't significantly affect the efficiency of the
whole process. That that could be the game changer.
And if teleoperation is part of that, it could be logistic.
You're saying it could be teleoperation or it could be like a fleet of rescuers
that can come in, which is a similar idea,
but teleoperation obviously that allows you to,
to just have a network of monitors,
of people monitoring this giant fleet of trucks and taking over when needed.
And it's a beautiful vision of the future where there's millions of robots
and only thousands of humans monitoring those millions of robots.
That seems like,
that seems like a perfect dance of allowing humans to do what they do best and
allowing robots to do what they do best.
Yeah. Yeah. So, I mean, I think there are, um, and we just applied for an NSF.
We didn't get anybody's watching,
but with some folks from Wisconsin who do teleoperation right. And, and,
you know, some of this is used for like rovers and, you know, I mean really,
you know, high stakes, difficult problems,
but one of the things we wanted to study where these mines in these Rio Tinto
mines in Australia,
where they remotely pilot the trucks and there there's some
autonomy, I guess, and then, but it's overseen by, um, uh,
a remote operator and they, you know, it's, uh, it's, uh,
it's near Perth in it's, it's quite remote. And, um,
they retrained the truck drivers to be the remote operators, right. Um,
there's autonomy and in the port of Rotterdam and places like that,
where there are jobs there. And so there, I think, you know,
and maybe we'll get to this later, but you know,
there's a real policy question about sort of who's going to lose and what we do
about it. And, you know, whether or not there are opportunities there that,
you know, maybe we need to put our thumb on the scale a little bit too,
to make sure that, you know,
there there's some give back to the community that's, that's taking the hit,
you know? Um, so for instance, if there were tele operation centers, you know,
maybe they go in these communities that we disproportionately source truck
drivers from today now. I mean, what does that mean?
It may not be the cheapest place to do it if they don't have great connectivity
and it may not be where the upper level managers want to be at, you know,
places like that, you know, issues like that. Right. So, um,
I do think it's an interesting question, you know,
both from sort of a practical, uh,
scenario situation of how it's gonna work,
but also from a policy perspective.
So there's platoons there's teleoperation, and this is, uh,
taking care of some of the highway driving that we're talking about.
Is there other ideas, like, um,
is there other ideas scenarios that you have for autonomous?
Yeah, so I mean the most obvious one actually is, is just, you know, uh,
facility to facility, right. This sort of, you know, um, it can't go everywhere,
but a lot of logistics facilities are very close to interstates and they're,
and they're on big commercial roads without, you know,
bikes and parked cars and all that stuff.
And some of the jobs that I think are really first on the chopping block are
these LTL that less than truckload what's called line haul, right?
So these are the drivers who go from terminal to terminal with those full
trailers. Um,
and those facilities are often located strategically to avoid congestion. Right.
Um, and to be in big, you know, industrial facilities.
So you could imagine that being, you know,
the first place you see a Waymo self-driving, you know, truck rollout might be,
you know, um,
sort of direct facility to facility for ups or FedEx or
less than truckload care. And then.
Yeah, there is fully driverless. So potentially not even a driver in the truck,
it's just going from facility to facility empty zero occupancy.
Yeah. And those, because that labor is expensive, uh, you know,
they don't keep those drivers out overnight.
Those drivers do do a run back and forth typically, um,
or in a team go back and forth in one day.
So from the people you've spoken with so far, what's your sense?
How far are we away from which scenarios closest and how far away are
we from that scenario of autonomy being a big part
of our trucking.
The most folks are focused on another scenario,
which is the exit exit, right. Um, which looks like that urban truck ports, um,
thing that I laid out earlier, you know,
so you have a human driven truck that comes out to, um, a drop lot.
It meets up with an autonomous truck, the, that, that truck then, you know,
drives it on the interstate to another lot. And then a human driver, um,
you know, picks it up there, a couple variations maybe on that.
Um, so let me just run it through the last two scenarios. Sure.
The other thing you could do right, is to say, all right,
I've got a truck that can drive itself. Um,
and I refer to this one as autopilot, but, um, you know,
you have a human drive it out to the interstate,
but rather than have that transaction where,
where the human driven truck detaches the trailer,
and it gets coupled up to a self-driving truck, they just,
that human driver just hops on the interstate with that truck and goes and back
and goes off duty while the truck drives itself. And,
and so you have a self-driving truck that's not driverless. Right. Um, and.
Because Tesla uses the term autopilot and so the airplanes,
and so everybody uses the word autopilot,
we're referring to essentially full autonomy, but because it's exit exit,
the truck driver is onboard the truck,
but they're sleeping in the back or whatever.
Yeah. And this, this gets to the really weedy policy questions, right?
So basically for the department of transportation,
for you to be off duty for safety reasons,
you have to be completely relieved of all responsibility.
So that truck has to not, you know,
encounter a construction site or inclement weather or whatever it
might be and, and call to you and say, Hey, you know, or, I mean,
obviously right. We're imagining connected vehicles as well. Right?
So you're in a self-driving truck, you're in the back and trucks,
20 miles ahead experienced some problem, right. Um,
that may require teleoperation or whatever it is. Right.
And it signals to your truck, Hey, you know, tell the driver 20 miles ahead.
He's, he's got to hop in the seat. That would mean that they're on duty.
According to the way that the current rules are written,
they have some responsibility. And, and part of that is, you know,
we didn't need, we needed them get rest. Right. Um, they,
they need to have an uninterrupted sleep.